[Tomoya] I hate this town.
It's too filled with memories
I'd rather forget.
I go to school everyday,
hang out with my friends,
and then I go home.
There's no place I'd rather not
go ever again.
I wonder if anything
will ever change.
Will that day ever come?
Anpan!
[Nagisa] Do you like
this school?
I have to say that I love
it very, very much.
But soon everything
changes, well, at least
it does eventually.
[Tomoya] A girl I don't know...
But she isn't talking to me.
She's probably talking
to someone in her heart.
[Nagisa] Fun things,
happy things, they'll all...
They'll all eventually change
someday, you know?
But can you still
love this place?
[Tomoya] Just go and find more.
All you have to do is find other
fun and happy things.
It's not so hard.
Come on, let's go.
[Tomoya] And so we begin...
...on a long, long
upward climb.
[Student] I haven't seen it
in a long time.
How about it, Sunohara?!
You come to your senses?
You and your CD player turned
way up, day after day...
Well, I can't get myself going
until I hear that song.
Scrum!
I swear, every day
it's the same thing.
Okazaki! Don't just stand
there, help me!
No, I don't want to turn into
a lamebrain like you.
You can be really coldhearted,
do you know that?!
[Grunting, Screaming]
[Misae] Quiet, quiet!
Will you guys knock it off?!
Those stupid kids!
I'm the one all the darn
neighbors complain to, you know!
[Tomoya] It's not easy being
Dorm Mother, is it?
[Youhei] Misae, you should have
come sooner to save me.
You're just as much
at fault, I'll bet.
I hope you've learned
your lesson after that
little assault!
Yes, ma'am...
[Youhei] Damn those rubgy
team jerkoffs...
No one can hear you if
you whisper.
"Damn those rugby
team jerkoffs!"
[Rugby player] Who said that?!
Are you trying to get
me killed?!
You're such a wimp,
you know that?
Well if it were just one of
those guys, I wouldn't give in.
There are just too many of them.
But just wait and see.
I'll get them good just
before our graduation day.
Then, Okazaki, as my best
friend, I'll let you
watch my back!
Lucky me! I got you covered!
You're not gonna do it!
But to be honest with you,
I'm on their side, than yours.
Since when?!
That day when-
[Rugby player] Keep it down,
will ya?!
Shall I kick him back?
[Youhei screams]
[Tomoya] And so, this day ends
like all the others do.
So, can I have some tea
or something?
No, I'm all out.
[Tomoya] With no particular
objective, and nothing to feel
passionate about.
Pretty Please!
[Tomoya] Just another
unexceptional day.
[Youhei] Begging won't get any
tea to appear!
[Voice] This is a world that
has ended. Nothing is born,
nothing dies.
Not even passing time exists.
If I were looking for somewhere
to be born, I don't think I
should choose this world.
And in this world, such as it
is, there is someone.
I wonder if she can see me?
I haven't been born
into this world.
A girl living alone in a world
that has ended.
A girl living in this empty
and still world.
For some reason, I am bothered
by that girl.
[Student] Okazaki and Sunohara
aren't here yet.
I wonder what they're planning
to do about going on to college
and entrance exams?
They're seniors, you know?
Forget about those two!
We don't need to waste a moment
of our lives worrying over those
two bums.
[Ryou] Uh, Okazaki...
Huh? What's the matter?
What is it?
Looks like you're a little late
again today, aren't you?
So?
Well, I just think you should
come to school on time every
day, that's all.
Oh? You're starting to sound
like the class leader or
something, you know that?
But... It's not any "or
something." I really am the
class leader.
[Student] Hey, Okazaki, don't
make her cry. You'll have her
big sister rushing in!
Oh, don't worry! I'm not
crying at all!
Okay, I got it. Let's just see
how I do tomorrow.
Well then, uh, I'll read your
fortune for tomorrow!
Fortunetelling is
my hobby, you see.
Oh boy...
It says you're going
to be late tomorrow.
Are you trying to make me mad?!
It's what the cards say!
I think this is your future.
You think that's my future?
[Ryou] On your way to school,
you'll have a romantic meeting
with a sweet girl.
You'll forget all about the
time, and that's why you're
going to be late.
Seems to be awfully
specific, isn't it?
Call it a maiden's inspiration.
[Kyou] Hey, Tomoya Okazaki!
Sister, what is it?!
Uh-oh...
You have got some nerve
picking on my little sister,
you fleabrain!
I'm gonna beat you!
Jeez, will you relax?
I was only talking to her!
That's right, Sis.
He wasn't picking on me.
Oh, in that case...
Huh? Were you having Ryou read
your fortune or something?
Yeah, she says I'll have
a romantic meeting with
a sweet girl tomorrow.
Is that so?
Okay, what's up with that face?
Nothing at all, loverboy...
Well, good luck!
[Tomoya] Now,
where shall I eat this?
[Student a] A ghost?!
They say that a ghost appears.
You know, the ghost of that girl
killed in that traffic accident.
[Student a] They were
probably seeing things.
[Tomoya] A ghost, huh?
[Student b] It's true!
[Student b] They say she's cute.
[Tomoya] Yo! You alone?
You should eat in the
classroom with your friends.
Anpan?
Are you listening to me?
No, I'm so sorry,
I'm in the middle
of my lunchtime meal.
[Tomoya] So I see...
[slurp]
What did...
So, what did you want?
Nothing, really. I was just
wondering why you're here
eating lunch alone.
Let me ask you, do you like
this school very much?
Uh, no, not especially...
I love this school
very, very much.
I used to have friends I could
talk to and teachers I was
close to,
but now it's just...
Did something happen?
It's just that I was out
of school for a long
time last year,
so everything's different.
And I...
...have to take the year over?
Yes, I'm a repeater.
[giggle]
Everybody that I knew has
graduated and gone on to
their lives,
so there isn't anyone
I know here anymore.
It's kind of weird, but I feel
a little like Rip Van Winkle.
Oh, I'm sorry,
I've only just met you
and I'm telling you all this.
Oh, I see. So, that's why you
were talking to yourself?
But weren't you in any
of the clubs or anything?
Well, I really wanted to join
the school's Drama Club,
but I don't know. Physically I'm
weak, so I can't be very active,
so I don't think
I'd get any parts.
If that's the case, then just
do as much as you can.
Why not at least check out the
Drama Club room after school?
But I...
[Tomoya] Oh, look!
They're looking this way.
[Tomoya] If you're always
looking so sad, you won't
make any friends.
Try smiling and waving at them.
[Nagisa] Ah!
[Tomoya] Come on, just try it.
A big smile!
[nervous laugh]
[Tomoya] They didn't notice you.
[Nagisa] I guess I don't
stand out much, not even
in my classes.
[motor sounds]
[boy] This should
be interesting.
[Nagisa] What could it be?
Boy, this is great!
What a blast!
Sunohara, what's all
the excitement?
It's a raid, I suppose.
Those rough kids from
another high school
came riding in on their bikes.
Hey! What are you doing
leaning on my head?!
Get off of me!
[Nagisa] Huh?
[Youhei] Ooh, what's this?
[Youhei] Is she planning
to lecture them?
[Nagisa] Why is this happening?
[Tomoya] This school has
the highest rate of kids
going on to college in town.
There are guys who are
turned off by that.
So, what? You're gonna help her?
I can't just sit back and watch.
[girl a] You don't have
to worry about Tomoyo.
[Tomoya] Tomoyo?
[girl a] Don't you know her?
She just transferred
here as a junior.
Her name is Tomoyo Sakagami.
She's really super strong.
If you butt in, you're only
going to be getting in her way.
[Tomoya] But
she's outnumbered...
I don't want any
unnecessary fuss out of you.
[Tomoyo] Get out of here
or you'll get hurt.
I won't trouble you
if you all just leave peaceably.
[Tomoyo] You wouldn't want
to get hurt, would you?
Don't take me for a fool!
Ooh!
[sigh]
[screaming]
[awe]
[punk] Don't take me for a fool!
[girl a] Oh my gosh, she did it!
[girl b] She's so super cool!
[giggling]
Wow, what in the world was that?
So, who was she? Is she a
transfer student or something?
Apparently not much different
from your situation,
but she's very popular.
I guess it depends
on how you handle things.
When you put it that way,
maybe you're right.
[Tomoya] Yeah, right...
Who am I to be lecturing her?
Well, I have to go.
Uh, y-yes...
Uh, thank you very much.
Oh, I'm Tomoya Okazaki
of Class D.
And my name is Nagisa Furukawa
of Class B.
It's very nice to meet you.
Yes, same here, Tomoya Okazaki.
[Youhei] Hey, Okazaki...
I want you to come
with me after this class.
[Tomoyo] Faked it?
[Youhei] Yeah,
there's no way a girl
can beat a guy.
I'll bet you paid them to let
you win, so you could
gain popularity.
Or maybe you didn't
offer money...
Something else, perhaps.
Maybe you're the kind of girl
who would offer a guy a little
bit of her you-know-what.
[whispering]
Who are those guys?
Delinquent seniors.
I think they're Sunohara
and Okazaki.
This is your day. I wasn't
going to take on and fight
any of the students
at this school,
but it looks like I'll just
have to make an exception
in your case.
You're so cute,
bluffing like that.
I'll bet your knees are quaking.
[Tomoyo] I want to make
this self defense.
Come at me.
Ha! Don't be so
sure of yourself.
Give it up!
[Tomoya] At that moment,
I suddenly remembered...
In this town, there was once
an unbelievably strong girl
who was also very beautiful.
She went around pounding
dumb guys who bothered
ordinary citizens.
That's what I always
heard, at least.
I wish you'd told
me that earlier.
[girl c] She sure is cool!
[girl d] He's such a wimp!
[Tomoyo] And don't come
back again.
Damn her!
[Tomoya] The third floor
of the old school building...
This is where the cultural
club rooms were, I think.
I guess she's decided to join.
Hamburger?
Excuse me!
Ah...
Okazaki, it's you.
You came here, too?
Yeah...
What are you doing with
your hand up there?
Oh, it's nothing. Sorry.
[Tomoya] I'd forgotten,
the Drama Club has been
on hiatus since March.
[Nagisa] I heard that they'd
always had few members.
[Tomoya] Well, yeah, but
"hiatus" means they can
get going again
once all the
requirements are met.
I wonder if maybe...
Why don't you just hang
in there a little bit longer?
I'll help you.
Can I ask you a question?
I'm sorry, I don't understand
why you're being so nice to me.
You only just met me
a little while ago.
Why am I being nice?
I dunno... Good question.
[giggle]
[yawn]
[woman] Sit down and eat.
[Nagisa] I'll leave you here.
[Tomoya] Yeah, so long.
[Nagisa] Uh, Okazaki...
My home is actually upstairs
in the bakery on the other side
of the park down there.
Why don't you come and
visit us sometime?
[Tomoya] I'll see...
Hello?
[Tomoya] Anyone here?
[Sanae] That's our new
item this week.
It would just thrill
me if you'd take a bite.
[Tomoya] Is that her sister?
Or her mother?
[giggle]
You needn't pay for it;
it's just a leftover.
The concept behind it is
the word "calmness."
Calmness?
Okay then, I think I'll
give one a try.
[crunch]
[Sanae] There's a rice
cracker inside.
I call it the crispy-crackly
rice cracker bun.
[Tomoya] This may be the
strangest name for a pastry,
but is even stranger
than the name is.
It is, isn't it?
It was a winning idea!
What's wrong?
You don't like the bun?
What isn't wrong?
I'm going to have to
be really honest.
This thing is a total disaster.
What?!
Isn't it tasty?
There's a problem with
the taste, yes,
but it's just too hard to eat.
It's obvious to me why these
travesties haven't sold yet.
Guh!
[sniffle]
You don't like my pastries...
My homemade pastries...
[Tomoya] J-Just a...
[Sanae] So, it's plain to
see why they haven't sold!
[Tomoya] Like mother
like daughter, I guess.
I hope her father
is normal, at least.
[Akio] Hey!
[Tomoya] What is it?
[Tomoya] It was worse than
anything I could imagine.
You said something
you shouldn't have.
[Akio] You shoulda just said it
was delicious and eaten it.
Where's your sense of
"duty" and "charity"?
I swear, you kids these days,
you have no manners at all.
Truth is always cruel if you
just shove it in her face...
How pitiful!
People living around here
eat her pastries saying
they're good.
It's an unwritten rule!
[Akio] It's the law!
So, you have to follow it, too,
you got that, wiseguy?
I'll beat you to such a pulp
they won't be able
to recognize you!
Huh? Hey kid,
you're wearing the exact same
uniform as our daughter.
You wouldn't, by any
chance, happen
to be a friend of Nagisa's?
You should have told
me sooner, numbskull!
I'm sorry that we showed
Nagisa's friend such
shameful conduct.
Ha, ha! Don't worry, Sanae.
He doesn't look too smart,
so he's probably
forgotten everything.
Right? Hyuk!
You mustn't say such things
to one of our guests, hunny!
[Akio] Whatever the case, we
should be celebrating.
[Tomoya] Why is this happening
to me?
[Akio] To think Nagisa
would bring a friend home so
soon after starting school!
And what's more,
it's a boy, Akio.
What's that?!
A boy, you say?
[Tomoya] Did he just realize it?
Maybe this charming lad
is her new boyfriend.
Hmph! You think I'm going to
give Nagisa to such a wimp?
Get outta here, kid. Get out!
[Tomoya] Then, I guess
I'll be leaving...
[Akio] Go on!
So, you call yourself a man?!
Well, if you're really
are a man,
you should grab the girl
you love and run.
Of course, there's no way
I'd let you have her.
Well look, you've all
become friends already.
Of course we are! I wouldn't
treat my daughter's friend
as if they were a stranger.
Yeah!
What's wrong there, pal?
Why the stupid look?
[Tomoya] I just thought
I probably shouldn't get
involved with this family.
See, we've gotten friendly
enough to even give each
other a little sarcasm.
Wait a minute, how rude of us.
We don't even know your
name yet.
It's Okazaki, Tomoya Okazaki.
Sounds like a
sissy's name to me.
Why don't you change
it to Ginga Okazaki?
That's nice! Well then, would
you mind if I call you Ginga?
While you're at it, change your
last name to Daiuchuu!
Ginga Daiuchuu!
Isn't it a great name?
My name is Tomoya Okazaki,
not Ginga!
Man, aren't you a picky fella?
Sanae, can't you think
of a better name for him?
I have an idea...
What if we add a little magical
something after his name?
Something that shows his
greatness and that he transcends
the flow of time and space.
How about
Tomoya Okazaki Eternal?
Oh, that's just great!
Call yourself that from
now on, Ethanol.
It's different...
[Tomoya] Thanks, I can find
my way from here.
[Nagisa] I'm sorry my family
and I kept you so late.
[Tomoya] It was a
little strange...
To think there was
a family like this...
You all get along so well.
[Nagisa] You think so?
I think we're actually
quite ordinary.
[Tomoya] See you tomorrow.
Yes, goodnight, Okazaki.
[tv] On the 27th, Earth will be
within 55,750,000 km of Mars.
[tv] As you know, Mars is in
an orbit just outside that
of Earth.
[Tomoya] Dad, if you're going
to sleep, you should move
to your bed.
Come on, Dad, wake up.
[Naoyuki] Oh, well look at this,
will you?
[Tomoya] Tch.
It seems that I've caused you
such trouble again, Tomoya.
[Tomoya] My mother died in
a traffic accident when
I was little.
Because of that I guess, my dad
has been drinking and gambling,
and hasn't been working much.
[Nagisa] If you'd like...
I'll take you to a special
place in town...
A place where all your
wishes come true.
Sure...
[Youhei] Okazaki, let's cut
school today.
It's Saturday and school's
just half a day today.
Don't worry,
I'll be done real soon.
Why don't you go wait
for me in the club room?
Good, not even a scratch.
Looks like I won't have to
charge you for any repairs.
Well, it's all set!
It's nothing at all.
Forget I said anything.
[Tomoya] Are you alone?